Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
All right, welcome back to the Blose
podcast. This is still your daily dose
of God's word transforming you to
fulfill God's purpose for your life. Now
we have looking at subject matter the
knownness of life and it's such an
important one and I think the foundation
we have laid in the I'm sorry episodes
we have had of the podcast would really
help you understand why is that
important. It's so important that in
Ephesians 4 when Paul is talking about
the entity of the doctrine, he simply
zooms into this as what accounts for our
growth and our work. That's how central
the truth of the knownness of life or
the new creation is. So, and when this
teaching is on the heels of what we have
seen about our life as believers, we are
a people who have believed the word of
truth that is the gospel. And in
believing the word of truth, we find out
in that truth that God's purpose for our
life is sunship. And we know what
sunship means. God wants us to walk with
him as his child. He wants us to walk
with him as his heirs. And as his child,
we um what do we do? As his child, we
fellowship with him as a father every
day. We walk in his nature and character
because we strengthen ourselves in the
place of prayer. And then also from the
strength, wisdom and the discipline etc
that we receive in prayer and from the
word we go on to fulfill the assignments
that God has given us in his purpose.
Now with all of this said you know about
the truth of the gospel leading us to
the understanding of our purpose. How do
we fulfill this purpose? We have said is
by growth and that has made for the
larger part of our study on the podcast
where we started to see growth is of the
mind. We started to say growth happens
by knowledge and faith which then saw
that the aspect of the mind that growth
specifically happens to is the hidden
man, inner man, soul of the mind or
spirit of the mind or the reckoning and
consciousness part of man. And when we
saw that then we proceeded to see what
the hidden man we saw how the hidden man
also is developed and that has brought
us here now that we know where we grow
to what are we to grow in if we may put
it that way. And on the one hand you
might say growing all the knowledge of
the word you're right but in the
knowledge of the word specifically is
the truth of who we are the new creation
that makes for our growth. So we'll go
to Ephesians 4 where in talking about
the work of the leaders of the church
this point is well made by Paul you know
and like I said Ephesians 4 is such an
important text because it is the Pauline
explanation of the Jesus instruction
called the great commission right so
Paul is giving an explanation he's
saying um this is what the Lord did when
he died and rose again from the dead in
fact if you read the pretext which is
Ephesians 4:7 it says to each of God's
grace is given according to the measure
of Christ's gift. Then the next verse
says that when Jesus ascended on high,
he led captivity captive and he gave
gifts to men. So it's telling us what
Jesus our Lord did when he died and
arose again. When he ascended, he gave
gifts to men, right? And he goes all the
way to explain that he ascended after he
had descended and when he had descended,
he ascended above all the heavens,
right? So and he gave these people. So
you could read this account by Paul and
be like, okay, when did Jesus descend
and ascend? That's when he died and
rose. And you could go to the narratives
um in the four gospels to see precisely
what he did then. And Matthew's account
is the most direct one relative to what
Paul is saying here. In Matthew's
account, the Lord Jesus when he rose
told them, "Go and make disciples."
Right? And Paul is saying that is
exactly what I'm explaining to you.
Okay? So when Jesus died and rose, he
gave the leaders of the church to go and
make disciples. Now in his own case,
Paul uses the word he gave them for the
perfecting of the saints which is the
word katismos. But I have done the
explanation I believe in some earlier
episodes on the podcast where we saw
that that word katismos
is used for disciplehip by the lord
Jesus itself. Right? That word is used
for disciplehip by the lord Jesus
himself. In um Luke chapter 6 and verse
14 the lord said a disciple is not above
his master but he that is perfectly
trained will be as his master and that
very word perfectly trained katiso
is the verb of this word katismos let's
not make it complicated so Jesus was
simply using like let's say Paul said he
gave them for the examination of the
saints Jesus is saying that he that is
examined be as his master so he's using
the verb like examined for the now
examination now that's not what the word
means the word means
bringing to an end. At least what we can
say like the vious uses completely
trained you know would be as his master.
You are brought to the end point. You
are completely made capable of
something. Gave them for that complete
training. He gave them for that
perfecting. He gave them for that
equipping. And what are we equipped? It
says with knowledge in verse 13 till we
come to the unity of the faith in
knowledge of the son of God. Right? Then
the perfect man measure of statness of
Christ. So the first two things which he
tells us the perfect thing would do is
to give us knowledge which is unity of
the faith and knowledge of son of God.
The other two is perfect man measure of
stature of fullness of Christ. And
that's no longer just information
knowledge understanding. It's from our
growth. Perfect man measure of the
stature of the fullness of Christ. He's
talking about our growth. We already
know that that growth you know perfect
man means the hidden man coming to the
perfect man because it's not the spirit
man coming to the perfect man the spirit
man is already in a perfect state is
already like the Lord Jesus is already
particle of the divine nature or God is
in us we are in God etc. So it's talking
about what happens on the mind where the
hidden man or hidden man comes to the
perfect man. Now our concern is okay
fine like how would this happen by all
the knowledge of God's word? Yes. But is
that all there is to it? Is there
something specific we should be looking
out for? And yes there is. Ephesians
4:17 will say something is lacking on
the mind of those who don't believe
which affects the way they walk. And he
tells us what is lacking is what we have
learned in Christ. And he didn't say it
is the entire detail of the doctrine.
Even though what he tells us is premised
on that and I please it's very important
detail so he's not just trying to play
balancing act here is that is critical
that I mean imagine you are building
castles and thing here like there needs
to be a foundation if you're going to
tell someone is a new creation I have
not yet spoken about redemption you
might be no different from people who
teach like pantist or pantheistic
beliefs who just believe there's a spark
of light in everyone and so on and so
forth despite the fact that we can see
very real evil playing out through
people And they can't explain the
presence of evil, the redemptive nature
of Christ work, and yet the need for
growth that needs to happen, the place
of natural human conscience and why
morality can happen even amongst people
that don't believe. This is something
we're going to look at later along the
lines of newness of life. But we are not
there yet. Okay. So um for now we we are
seeing that the central truth that
becomes the focus of the church and of
Bible teaching for the sake of our
growth and walk in God's purpose is the
truth of the new creation. Right? It
says that you put off this what you've
learned in Christ because the truth is
found in him that you put off concerning
your former conversation the old man
which grows corrupt according to
deceitful laws and that you are renewed
in the spirit of your mind and that you
put on the new man. All these three
things are one, right? Put off the old
man. Get your hidden man renewed. Adon
him a fresh. You have been adoning your
hidden man maybe with anger, with
unforgiveness, with bitterness, with
hate, with selfishness. Sometimes also
we can talk about it in fear with like
with fear, anxieties, sometimes fear of
evil. Some people can attract you know
wrong things to themselves by the way
they their mind has been framed and set.
So there is all of that to talk about.
You need to renew. You need to change
the cloth you are putting on. um the
clothes you're putting on on your Indian
man, right? And then put on the new one.
So, put off the old change the clothes
for your Eden man, put on the new. It's
one thing. It's just one thing. He's
saying your hidden man has been wearing
the wrong stuff. Put off that one. Get
something new that he's put on the new.
So, it's the truth of the new creation
that is the one thing that is the
central focus of the church. And now
finally we can go to Romans 6 and 4 and
start to pay more attention to how Paul
frames it in Romans 6 where he chooses
to use that terminology the newness of
life and uh why I want us to look at it
that way where we are seeing where we
are seeing the reality of the new more
from this standpoint of life than just
from the standpoint of the person who
has and is in this life very important.
So when we look at it from standpoint of
right we are able to look at two things
the external and the internal conditions
of that life but when we look at it from
just the person we may we may be forced
to restrict our study to the internal
conditions that pertain to the person
and please hold on I'm going to explain
what we mean and it's really important
it's not just some fancy explanation now
in Romans and in chapter 6 Paul says he
doesn't want us to the reality of
redemption the grace of God the
forgiveness of sins is no ground or
reason to continues to walk in sin
because indeed what redemption has done
is also to break the hold of sin not
just to undo the effect of sinful
conduct. Okay. So it breaks the very
hold of sin on us. So it says shall we
continue saying that grace may abound?
Certainly not or do you not know? As
many of us as were baptized into Christ
were baptized into his death. And for
all intents and purposes when we
encounter the word baptism in this
particular um on the part in our
teachings is about what has happened to
the believer spiritually. I'm going to
be focused. I'm not going to be making
arguments on the baptismal rights for or
against it or indifference about it. But
we'll be focused on the reality of we
being baptized into Christ by the
spirit. 1 Corinthians 12 and 13. by one
spirit we're all baptized into one body
whether slaves or Greek Jew or whether
slave or free Greeks or Jew and I'll be
made to drink into one spirit you know
so I'll be talking about I'll I'll be
putting our focus on that which is
inclusive of everyone that has believed
the gospel so as many of us as have been
baptized into Christ which is what
happens spiritually by faith are
baptized into his death that will be our
focus here verse four therefore we were
buried with came through baptism into
death that just as Christ was raised
from the dead by the glory of the father
even so we should walk in the newness of
life. Okay. So he's saying what Christ
has done has not only forgiven our sins,
render the effect of sins on us null and
void, but it has radically changed who
we are. And the manner in which he
describes the way it changed who we are
is something worth thinking about. He
says it's like dying and being buried
and rising up into a new reality.
If you think about it, you can think
about it in a couple of ways, right?
Because if someone is someone like let's
use example of Lazarus, Lazarus dies, is
buried, he's raised back into the same
reality,
not into a new reality, is raised back
into the same world.
But he says this is like dying and
rising back into a new life, into a new
world, into a new experience.
That's what I want you to think about
here. Okay, I'm going to read it again
and I think you'll catch it this time.
Says, "Therefore, we were buried with
him through baptism into death because
when the Lord died, we're told he went
into a this is still the realm of the
dead. And we have good reason to believe
when he went into this, he suffered the
second death for us." Because we are
told Christ suffered for us. Now if what
he suffered for us is the first death
which is just physical death or even
going to people have always gone to
people are still going there. The saint
of all went there that is not something
he has suffered for them because they
have suffered it and when people have
died physically they have suffered it
personally. Nobody suffered that death
for them. So the specific death in
question that he suffered for us when he
went to the place of the dead is the
second death. I think we must have
looked at that in the earlier parts of
this podcast. Okay. So he has suffered
that death for us. He's saying our death
with him, our being baptized into Christ
and experiencing what they experienced
for us is our being baptized into death.
So it was under the reign of death that
all of this happened where he
legitimately exhausted the bounds of
death. But having done that and having
legitimate rights
to set us free from the reign of death,
we are raised now into the newness of
life. So our being raised is being
raised as new persons. Now remember the
Lazarus example, Lazarus is the same
person and also Lazarus is coming back
into the same world. But when we are
raised, we are raised as new persons
sort of like into a new world. But
please I know that when you get born
again, you are still in this world. And
I'm going to explain. But you are raised
into a new kind of life. Not just you
having a new life but you being in a new
life. So we are to walk it he says in
the newness of life. So we are getting
closer to now looking at clearly what is
the newness of life that we have come
into via what Christ our Lord has done
for us that we are going to see I
believe in the next episode. Thank you.
Fulfill God's purpose.
>> We trust you are blessed by today's
episode. Do stay in faith about all
you've heard to walk in it. To learn
more of God's word, visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Plurose
community channel on WhatsApp and follow
us on all our social media handles at
Plurose_Hog.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.